= /etc/passwd =

`/etc/passwd` contains one line for each user account, which seven fields
delimited by colons (":"). These fields are:

1.  login name
2.  optional encrypted password
3.  numberical user ID
4.  numberical group ID
5.  user name or comment field
6.  user home directory
7.  optional user command interpreter

The encrypted passwrod field may be blank, in which case no password is
required to authenticate as the specified login name. However, some
applications which read the `/etc/passwd` file may decide not to permit any
access at all if the password field is blank. If the password field is a
lower-case "x", then the encrypted password is actually stored in the shadow
file, or else the user account is invalid. If the password field is any other
string, then it will be treated as an encrypted password, as specified by
crypt.

The comment field is used by various system utilities, such as finger.

The home directory field provides the name of the initial working directory.
The login program uses this information to set the value of the $HOME
environmental varibale.

The command interpreter field provides the name of the user's command language
interpreter, or the name of the initial program to execute. The login program
uses this information to set the value of the $SHELL environment variable. If
this field is empty, it defaults to the value `/bin/sh`.

= /etc/group =

The `/etc/group` file is a text file that defines the groups on the system.
There is one entry per line, with the following fields:

1.  group name
2.  group password
3.  group id
4.  list of the usernames that are members of this group, separated by commas.

= /etc/shadow =

`/etc/shadow` is a file which contains the password information for the
system's accounts and optional aging information.

This file must not be readable by regular users if password security is to be
maintained.

Each line of this file contains 9 fields, separated by colons (":"), in the
following order:

1.  login name
2.  encrypted password
3.  date of last password change
4.  minimum password age
5.  maximum password age
6.  password warning period
7.  password inactivity period
8.  account expiration date
9.  reserved field

== Login name ==

It must be a valid account name, which exist on the system.

== Encrypted password ==

Refer to crypt for details on how this string is interpreted.

If the password field contains some string that is not a valid result of crypt,
for instance ! or *, the suer will not be able to use a unix password to log in
(but the user may log in the system by other means).

This field may be empty, in which case no passwords are required to
authenticate as the specified login name. However, some applications which read
the `/etc/shadow` file may decide not to permit any access at all if the
password field is empty.

A password field which starts with a exclamation mark means that the password
is locked. The remaining characters on the line represent the password field
before the password was locked.

== Date of last password change ==

The date of the last password change, expressed as the number of days since Jan
1, 1970.

The value 0 has special meaning, which is that the user should change her
password the next time she will log in the system.

An empyt field means that password aging features are disabled.

== Minimum password age ==

The minimum password age is the number of days the user will have to wait
before she will be allowed to change her password again.

An empty field and value 0 mean that there are no minimum password age.

== Maximum password age ==

The maximum password age is the number of days after which the user will have
to change her password.

After this number of days is elapsed, the password may still be valid. The user
should be asked to change her password the next time she will log in.

An empty field means that there are no maximum password age, no password
warning period, and no password inactivity period.

if the maximum password age is lower than the minimum password age, the suer
cannot change her password.

== Password warning period ==

The number of days before a password is going to expire during which the user
should be warned.

An empty field and value 0 mean that there are no password warning period.

== password inactivity period ==

The number of days after a password has expired (see the maximum password age
above) during which the password should still be accepted.

After expiration of the password and this expiration period is elapsed, no
login is possible using the current user's password. The user should contact
her administrator.

An empty field means that there are no enforcement of an inactivity period.

== Account expiration date ==

The date of expiration of the account, expressed as the number of days since
Jan 1, 1970.

Note that an account expiration differs from a password expiration. In case of
an account expiration, the user shall not be allowed to login. In case of a
password expiration, the user is not allowed to login using her password.

An empty field means that the account will never expire.

The value 0 should not be used as it is interpreted as either an account with
no expiration, or as an expiration on Jan 1, 1970.

== Reserved field ==

This field is reserved for future use.

= Reference =

-   `man 5 passwd`

-   `man 5 group`

-   `man 5 shadow`
